Welcome back. In this lesson, we will install OpenClaw in Windows 11 Virtual Machine, which is running in Oracle VirtualBox.
It is recommended to use virtual machines for several reasons.
First, you can create snapshots and then revert back to these snapshots after completing your reverse engineering or malware analysis projects.
Secondly, if OpenClaw accidentally damages your system or makes unwanted changes, you can also easily revert back to earlier snapshots.
This is my Windows 11 virtual machine.
The first thing I did was to take a snapshot.
This is the official website for OpenClaw.
And this is the official documentation for OpenClaw.
If you need help, you can refer to this documentation.
OpenClaw recommends Node version 24 at time of this recording.
My virtual machine has no Node installed, but you do not need to manually install it.
Instead, use the one-liner installation command here.
It will automatically install Node.js.
Next we will open a PowerShell command line as administrator, search for PowerShell, then
right click and run as administrator, copy the one-liner installation command and paste
it into PowerShell and hit enter, and then just wait for it to install.
It will take about 5 minutes.
Take note that, for Windows installation, the OpenClaw documentation requires administrator
PowerShell. Installing it without administrator PowerShell might produce error. It has now finished
installing and now doing the setup phase. Use your arrow key to select yes and hit enter.
Select quick start and hit enter. Next, select your model provider. There are two ways to set up the
AI provider. OpenAI allows you to use your ChatGPT subscription to link to OpenClaw. All the other
companies require you to use API key. For this course, I will use the ChatGPT OAuth
but for those of you who prefer to use API keys, I will now show you where to
get those API keys. For Claude API key, go to this page after logging in and click
on the button get API key. Then just top up some money and get your API key. API
keys are pay as you go. So each time you call the API, it will use your credit and
and when credit is low, you need to top up.
Another option is to use Open Router.
With Open Router, you just need to get one API key,
and you will then have access to more than 300 models.
Now coming back to the setup, I will use my ChatGPT subscription via OAuth.
So I scroll down and select OpenAI Codex and hit enter.
It will open a browser to ask you to log in to authenticate.
Then you need to click continue to sign in to Codex with ChatGPT.
Then, head back to the setup screen and under Default Model, select Keep Current which is
OpenAI Codex GPT 5.4.
Hit enter.
If you had chose Other Providers, it would have asked you to paste in your API key.
Now it will ask you to select Channel.
This will link your OpenClaw to social media for example Telegram, WhatsApp or Discord.
You can skip for now and set it up later if you want, but I will select Telegram.
follow the instructions. Open telegram and search for botfather. Enter the command newbot.
Enter a name for your bot. Then enter a username for your bot. Click on the bot token to copy
it to clipboard. Then go back to the setup screen. Select enter telegram bot token. Then
paste the bot token here. Next, for search provider, just scroll down and select Tavily
search and hit enter. Go to the Tavily website and sign up for free to get an API key. Copy your API
key and paste it into the setup screen. For the configure skills, use arrow key to select no and
hit enter. We can configure this later. For hooks, use spacebar one by one to select all and then hit
enter. It will install the gateway service and start it and finally onboarding is complete
close the terminal and open a cmd line terminal. Open the web ui by typing open claw dashboard
and you can chat with open claw here. accessnswer the questions tell it its name and also your name
tell it what you want it to be. Ask it to choose an emoji for itself
Tell it what type of personality you'd like it to have.
Now, let's test Telegram. You can either use your mobile phone or the desktop.
Click on the Telegram bot link that Botfather created for you.
Then click start. It will ask you to pair. Just copy the pairing command and paste it into a
CMD terminal and it will pair the Telegram account. If you have any errors like what
you are seeing here for me regarding PowerShell, just ask OpenClaw how to fix. I ran the PowerShell
command that it recommended and it fixed the permission issue. After making any changes,
be sure to restart the OpenClaw Gateway for it to take effect. Use the command OpenClaw Gateway
restart. When you reboot your PC, OpenClaw Gateway service should auto restart. If it does not auto
restart do the command: open claw gateway status then open claw gateway start. Remember, if you need
to do anything or need any help with the configuration just ask open claw. It has
access to your machine and can directly fix it. That's all for this lesson thank you for watching.